---
title: "The One where I Went to SoCraTes"
date: 2019-08-28T15:55:53+02:00
tags:
- diversity
- events
- software craft
---

I'm currently sitting in our Berlin office in a small unused office room with the door shut because I am so tired. I'll have to stay awake for a workshop at 4pm though and then we have to go to the main station to travel to Hamburg for our visit in our Hamburg office tomorrow, so I guess I won't sleep for a while now.

I spent the weekend at [SoCraTes](https://www.socrates-conference.de/home) in Soltau, a kind of magical un-conference with the best people and the coolest topics ever. And I really wanted to blog about everything and all the time, but I was always so exhausted in the evenings that I didn't manage to write anything. It was great though, so I'll use this post for a short recap:

It started off great with a train that was perfectly on time in Hannover and then I even ran into some folks that I knew from the years before so we could share the train ride to Soltau and catch up on things that are going on in everyone's lives. And when I arrived at the conference hotel, I happened to sit on a couch with [Lewis](https://www.lcoleman.me/), one of HolidayCheck's former apprentices and we immediately started talking about how to structure learning after/without an apprenticeship program. Great, that's what I came there for. We continued our conversation on Saturday during the lunch break where he and [Markus](https://markusheilig.netlify.com/), one of their current apprentices shared a bit more about their apprenticeship program and I explained how I am trying to structure my learning and crate an apprenticeship-like path for our company.

In terms of sessions, I went to:

- Evil Mob (Mob Programming meets Werewolf, who are the evil programmers?)
- Community-driven [Software Craft Knowledge Base](https://github.com/socrates-conference/craft-bok)
- Liberating Structures
- TCR CI/CD on TDD
- a Nail Polish / Networking session
- Apprenticeship Programs
- Rust Intro
- Silent Coaching
- How to debug perceived slow team performance
- Refucktoring (really fuck up a decent implementation of FizzBuzz)
- ReasonML Intro

What really stood out for me was the session on "test && commit || revert" CI/CD and TDD, mostly because Xavier said a lot about how and why we write commit messages and how fast and how intense we get feedback for our mistakes (from humans or machines) and I think I might do a Learning Hour talk on TDD variations and all those things like feedback and commit messages that have something to do with it.

And I did Katas! I finally did the Kebap Kata (I was too afraid I'd publicly mess up last year), a fun Scala session in the evening and I participated in Sunday's Code Retreat where I (partially) implemented Game of Life in Kotlin, Elixir and Haskell.

There are so many things that I missed that sounded great, though. I think I will spent some time during the next weeks reading session results and begging people for more information on those sessions I did not manage to participate in. Some of the topics that I'm definitely curious about:

- [Reading Code under the influence of one's emotions](https://vimeo.com/221102445) (got a link already)
- KPI-Driven Development
- Different schools of TDD
- Navigating your emotions
- A "Know Your IDE" Kata (?!)

And I spent my train time from Köln to Hannover and back on refining an idea I have for a learning project/application. It is related to the "apprenticeship" program I am trying to develop and to my needs of tracking what I learn in a better way. I have a plan now. Let's see how this goes.